Welcome back.
We finally finished our two pillars of JavaScript concepts that not all programming languages have that
are quite complex but are very powerful.
If you understand them we now have the tools on top of our foundations with these two pillars to really
push our abilities and start talking about programming paradigms.
These paradigms allow us to create programs that are not just simple basic ones complex heavy applications
using good practices enclosures and prototypes are going to be something we're going to be talking about
over and over and over.
When we talk about functional programming and object oriented programming.
Two very important paradigms when it comes to becoming a great programmer.
Now to finish off this section I wanted to talk to you about scheme and Java.
You see originally when Brendan Eich in 1995 released javascript he was inspired by these two programming
languages scheme was a programming language that was created at M.I.T. in the 70s.
It was a very unique programming language and I believe the first language to have closures in the program
and then Java at the time that JavaScript was created was the trendiest language everybody was using
it.
Everybody was talking about it companies wanted to hire Java developers now.
Brendan Mike wanted to create a programming language while he was working at Netscape.
That was very easy to use on the web but also used the popularity of Java which is why javascript name
kind of derived from.
But there was an issue here scheme in Java are quite different.
Brendan I really liked the functional side of scheme this idea of closures and functions as first class
citizens but at the same time he also had pressure from the Java community where classes and classical
inheritance was really really important.
This idea of object oriented programming where objects where the key to building beautiful programs
versus scheme where functions where the key to building beautiful programs.
Now I'm simplifying things a little bit here but as we move into the next part of the course I want
you to realize that based on the roots of JavaScript which were inspired by scheme and Java we have
this multi paradigm language unlike a lot of languages you can mix and match these paradigms and you
can't really say that JavaScript is an object oriented programming language or a functional language
you can do whatever you want which in my opinion is actually the beauty of javascript that you can use
multi paradigms to build your applications based on your needs based on why you think will create the
best outcome the most maintainable the most predictable code and that power of JavaScript we're going
to explore in the next section.
Now that we have these two pillars of closures and prototype inheritance two key pieces for us to really
dive deep into object oriented programming.
Functional programming and how they allow us to create large scale programs.
I'll see you in the next section.